# 18.6.25

-made a repo  
-installed node.js, TypeScript and VSCode plugins  
-made a seperate branch  
-merged "main" and "different-image"

## Task01.2

### Repository, Commit, Branch, Remote
**Repositories** are files that store the entire history of all changes (Commits) across all branches.  

**Commits** are packages of changes uploaded to the Repository. They can be pushed into the selected Branch to integrate the changes into it.  

**Branches** are different versions of the project that can exist in parallel. They may have their own different versions of the same file and have different commit histories.  

**Remote** descripes the copy of the repository located on an external host like github. Individual machines can interface with them to pull or push changes.

### Git commands
**Staging** refers to the process of preparing the changes to be committed. Authors may decide to commit only some of the files they have edited, so they **stage** these. Only staged files will be commited.  

**Committing** uploads staged files to the remote server as a "package" called a Commit.  

**Fetching** retrieves the current version of the selected branch of a repository from the remote server. It does not overwrite the local version of the branch. This allows the remote version to be compared to the local one.  

**Pulling** integrates remote changes to the local branch, thereby overwriting existing files.  

**Merging** combines the changes from two different commits.

## Task01.3

**1.Excluding files**
Files can be excluded from tracking by creating a file called ".gitignore" in the root of the project. Within this file, you can specify rules for things that git tracks, like specifying a subdirectory to ignore.

**2.Discarding changes**
To discard changes temporarily, one can use the stash to save every change made since a specifed point. They can later be reapplied.  
Changes can also be discarded directly without stashing.

**3.Discarding untracked files**
Untracked files can be discarded using the clean command